# past-coding-unorganised

Welcome! This is a fairly unorganised repository of code that I've made in the past for things (at least, it's all the extensive code files that I could find.)

The files muon_fitting_code.py and read_dat_file.py are from a class project in which we used a scintillator + photomultiplier setup to estimate the lifetime of the muon. We did this by having our instruments record only signals occuring within a couple of microseconds of each other, as this situation would, at least some of the time, correspond to a muon entering the scintillator (producing a signal, coming to rest there, and then decaying (producing a second signal). The signals given by the PMT were collected with multiple simultaneous methods that produced different types of data files. The code works by first calibrating measurements according to a time series of pulses where the time of each pulse is known with great precision. Multiple methods can be used to derive the bin-to-time conversion factors, and each of them are implemented and trialed in the code..

The file xrfhisto.py is from work I did on on an X-ray fluorescence spectrometer in the Summer of 2023. At the time, the data readout software for the spectrometer wasn't working correctly. To temporarily deal with this, I wrote Python code that reads the .hyperc files created by the spectrometer and converted them into histograms plottable in matplotlib. The code also calibrates data according to the prior spectral measurement of a known substance.

The files in ./geant-test use the GEANT4 C++ library to simulate Cherenkov radiation and measure the energy deposited in detectors by the produced photons. I wrote this simulation in order to practise using GEANT4 in preparation for a lab project. This lab project involved a much larger simulation with many collaborators in the lab, and for this reason I won't be including it in the repository.

The file voronoi.ipynb is from Google Colab, and is from work I did over the past year with X-ray observations from the Chandra X-ray Observatory. In it, I implement a procedure called Weighted Voronoi Tesellation (the code the WVT algorithm came from Cappellari and Copin) to identify and analyse regions with a significant level of diffuse emission. In it, I experiment with various ways of partitioning the image, and the effect that various treatments of the image beforehand (e.g. expanding the box covered in the image, zooming in, excluding bright source regions, etc.) can have on the WVT result. For each partitioning, I completed further analysis in Chandra Interactive Analysis of Observations (CIAO) and Xspec, but these are not shown here.
